So what this is is called emotional
inquiry. So a lot of the times in life
we behave in specific ways because we're
trying to avoid a certain set of
emotions
or a certain emotion and we've avoided
it for so long that we have no idea
actually what it is.
So what we're doing here is
basically taking the emotion, embodying
it as much as we can and we're exploring
it. And there'll be several times in the
journey where I basically say just come
back to the emotion.
So you can pick the emotion that is
difficult for you. Maybe there's a fear
or maybe there is a anger or maybe
there's pain or an early childhood
trauma. So just the emotion that you're
not particularly wanting to feel and the
idea is that you put it in you allow it
in your body completely. You and so
maybe you need to remember a time when
you felt it. Maybe you can just bring it
up in that moment.
Um maybe you have to think of a scenario
that would trigger it. you know,
somebody yelling at you or some death or
whatever it is. And so, but every time I
say, "Okay, come back to the emotion."
We're going to go back to it, and then
we'll inquire around it, explore it, and
then we'll come back to it. Then we'll
explore it, then we'll come back to it,
then we'll explore it, then we'll come
back to it. So, I'm going to ask you a
series of questions through this, and
there's no response needed. So, if I
say, "Where's the center of it?" Your
job is just to find the center of it.
It's not to say the center of it is
right below my abdomen. Um if I say
uh
you know uh how is it moving?
Is it still? Does it vibrate? Those are
just questions that you're asking
yourself and noticing the response, but
there's no need to say anything about it
in response. It's just a way for you to
put your attention to different places.
So your job is just to be silent through
the whole thing. Okay? So get into a
comfortable position
and close your eyes.
Let's just relax for a minute.
Just notice if if uh anything is being
resisted.
Notice if there's anything that wants to
protect
Notice if anything wants
something to be different.
All right. So, I want you to call up the
feeling,
the uncomfortable feeling.
You can call it up through a memory
or you can call it up through
imagination. Pretending you're in a
situation where this feeling would come
up.
So, how does that sit in your body? How
does this feeling sit in your body?
Where is the outside edge of the
feeling?
Where's the center of the feeling?
How thick is the feeling?
How wide is it?
How does the feeling move in your body?
Does it pulsate? Does it vibrate?
How does it move?
Can you find the exact center of the
feeling?
Can you move to the very middle of the
Can you take one step even closer
to the center of the feeling?
Okay, just relax again.
Let the feeling go.
Take a deep breath
and again invite the feeling back in.
Embody that feeling again.
Maybe the feeling can come up just by
thinking about it.
And maybe you need to imagine a scenario
where every single trigger that triggers
this feeling is at place at the same
time.
And again,
notice how the feeling is in
relationship to your back. How close it
is to your back?
How close is it to the front of your
body?
Do the edges of this feeling vibrate
differently than the center?
Can you find the exact point where the
edge of the feeling
ends and you begin
What is it like between the very edge
and the very middle of the feeling?
What color is the feeling?
Does the color change?
Is the center a different color than the
edges,
which is a different color than the
middle, or is it all the same color?
How solid is the feeling? How dense is
it?
Are the edges a different density than
the middle?
Is that a different density than the
center?
And if you explore the most dense part
of it, is there still space there
or is there no space?
What happens to the feeling if you
really slow it down to really take a
look at it?
And what happens to the feeling if you
speed it up? You just let it run.
And again, let it go. Just take a deep
breath.
Shake it off if you need to.
And then this will be our last time.
just re-mbod
feeling.
Maybe call back the most traumatic
experience of that feeling that you had.
Maybe you can just manufacture it.
And this time, just treat the feeling
like you're a little kid with a frog.
you like you found a frog, you picked it
up and you're looking at it, you're
smelling it, you're tasting it. Even you
little kids will even lick that stuff,
you know,
just really embrace the feeling like you
with that just genuine sense of
curiosity.
So, what is this feeling like if you
poke at it?
If you poke at it in its sensitive
spots,
what is this feeling like if you take a
deep breath into it?
What is this feeling like if you hold
your breath?
What is this feeling like if you tickle
it? If you play with it gently.
What is this feeling like if you say I
don't want to feel you? Stop it.
Get out of here.
What is this feeling like if you give it
a big old hug?
Embrace it.
What is this feeling like if you chase
it? Chase it around the room.
What is this feeling like if you listen
to it really, really, really, really
carefully?
Like it was
the most intelligent person you ever met
with a deep spiritual connection. And
all you wanted was just to hear what it
had to say.
And how is this feeling if you were just
not willing to listen at all?
You're just like, you're an idiot. Stop
talking.
How is this feeling if you just let it
penetrate you completely? If you just
open yourself up completely and allow it
in,
no resistance.
And how is this feeling? If you don't
let it in, you defend yourself. You
block yourself from this feeling.
And how does this feeling act if it's if
you love it and you open your arms to it
the way you would
a child who's been acting bad but just
totally has been doing it to get mom's
attention and you just give the child
the attention.
You just give this emotion that loving
attention.
Okay. So you can open up your eyes
and the inquiry can work with any
question you have around
the felt sense of this emotion
just as long as the inquiry is truly
curious.
as long as the inquiry has no agenda.
And oftent time with a very triggering
emotion, it's good to go through this
exercise many times.
And pretty soon what you'll notice is
that you'll be out in the world and this
feeling will come up and you'll be
excited that the feelings come up
because you get to inquire more. You get
to learn more about it and you get to
play with it some more.
So that's the invitation.
Okay. Have a great day.